Next up we'll see two methods not properties but methods called Get attribute and set attribute and
these methods do exactly what they sound like.
They allow us to access or change the value of attributes on elements.
So we've seen a couple shorthand or shortcut WAYS TO ACCESS attributes some special cases like value
or place holder or source or a ref that are commonly used have their own shortcut property but there
are other attributes that don't.
So we have these methods get attribute and set attribute.
For example on this range input right here if I select it concept I also like using a query selector.
So I'll do constraint equals document dot query selector and I don't want to just do input I'm going
to do input and then attribute type equals have to use the right quotes in here type equals range and
I'll expand it a bit so give me the first input where it has the type attributes that to range and we
have that range and if we look at it where are you.
Right here we have a bunch of attributes.
We have the type attribute we have men we have Max we have step.
So if I want to know what the max value is for this range I could do range dot and then the get attribute
method which takes the name of an attribute as a string and I'll type Max and I get 500 if I do when
I get one hundred I could also view the type attribute and get range.
So that's get attribute.
It's simple.
You pass in the attribute you're looking for on the element that you're calling it on and it gives you
the value assuming it has that attribute.
If I try and find an attribute that's not in there like L'Oréal it just gives me no.
Now we can also use set attribute so range that set attribute takes two arguments.
The thing we're trying to set so I'll do men and then the value I want to give it.
Let's say the men is negative 500 okay.
Now if we look in our temple or in the elements tab and we inspect that input we should see that now
men is negative five hundred and if we play around with the range let's go all the way down here and
take a look at range that value which we just saw it's now negative three hundred and fifty.
So we are successfully setting that attribute.
It's one that we don't really have a shortcut for.
We have a shortcut for value.
We had one for source on an image and a trap on an anchor tag.
But there are plenty of attributes you may need to change where you need to use set attribute.
So that's a couple of examples.
We also could change the entire type of the input.
I could do range that set attribute and then do type and then we could turn it into a radio button.
Sure type equals radio and now we have a radio button there.
So we completely change the type of the input the variable is still called range but it's no longer
an actual range input.
So that's get attribute and set attribute.
There are plenty of other attributes we could use with this.
Most of the common ones have those shorthand that we saw.
But if there's ever something you need to change.
I mean technically you could use set attribute to change an idea.
So if there's ever an attribute that you need to update or that you need to access these are your go
to methods get and set attribute relatively straightforward.